---
layout: post
title: week8 summary
---
  
**14:00- DNA extraction with 羽田さん**   
ref:   
Bento: DNA Extraction from Salvia by Georg
[https://trembl.notion.site/Bento-DNA-Extraction-from-Salvia-36710c3e07154990b0b274dc06acf469](https://trembl.notion.site/Bento-DNA-Extraction-from-Salvia-36710c3e07154990b0b274dc06acf469)  
  
DNA Extraction from Saliva - bentolab official  
[https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/dna-extraction-from-saliva/](https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/dna-extraction-from-saliva/)  
  
### Protocol Notes

//It's helpful if you first have salt, water, saliva, and a paper cup for trash.  
1. Label 1.5m Eppendorf Tube with your name  
2. Prepare Saline (=Salt) solution  
Use ca. 5ml of water, mix with a pinch of salt  
// A pinch of salt in about 5 mm of water in the bottom of a paper cup  
  
3. Rinse your mouth  
// for one minute  
  
4. Transfer to 1.5ml Eppendorf Tube.  
If you use a Paper Cup, bend it and fill the tube  
// No need to use Pipetman.  
  
5. Centrifuge at **4KG for 90sec**  
// bentolab's UI is tricky and you should read the manual beforehand  
  
6. Recover the Pellet by decanting the Supernatant  
The *Pellet* is the white concentration of cells on the bottom of the tube. The liquid above is the *Supernatant*  
  
7. Resuspend the Pellet  
Mix the Pellet with the remaining Supernatant by repeatedly flipping and tapping it.  
  
8. Transfer the sample to a 0.2ml PCR tube.   
You can use a 2-20 or 10-100 Pipette.  
  
9. Label the tube.  
// It is useful to write your name on the lid of tube as well  
  
10. Heat the Sample at **99ºC for 10min**  
  
11. Mix the Sample by flipping and tapping  
  
12. Centrifuge at **8KG for 90sec**  
Use the Adapter Eppendorf tube to fit the PCR tubes in the Centrifuge  
**The DNA is now in the Supernatant, NOT in the Pellet**  
  
13. Transfer the Supernatant is a new PCR Tube  
Use a 20uL Pipette to transfer the Supernatant - and only the Supernatant - to a new PCR Tube  
  
14. Label and Freeze at -20ºC  
  

**17:00- slime mold second experiment with 桜木さん、土屋さん**  
Using a pill crusher, I grinded the oatmeal and drew patterns.   
  
img:  
[https://photos.app.goo.gl/pW7evX7vMztu2249A](https://photos.app.goo.gl/pW7evX7vMztu2249A)  
  
**18:45- E.coli spreading out with inoculation loop**  

notes:  
- The reason for rubbing the medium with a loop, like frottage, is to create a gradient of bacterial concentration in the trail, making it easier to isolate colonies that will be formed by a single E.coli.  
- Loosen the lid of the tube containing E.coli to make it easier to open with one hand.   
- The bag of inoculation loop should be opened in the clean bench and left in there until discarded.  
- This time, we incubated at 30°C.  



