---
layout: post
title: 2022/03/22 Tue
---
2022/03/22 Tue  
## note
2022/3/22 Tue
**17:00 - Local Workshop, Making Media & Growing Bacteria & Plants, Georg, BioClub Lab**
with Haneda-san, Hirose-san, Sakuragi-san, Hasegawa-san  
  
Make the medium today.  
Making tea mushrooms on Thursday.  

  
Unopened petri dishes should be opened in a clean bench.  
Plastic is better than glass.  
  
Plastic containers are a bit expensive, so disinfect them with ethanol.  
Cannot autoclave because it melts.  
  
When autoclaving, do not fully close the lid of the container to allow the steam to circulate.  
  
If the container has a volume of 1 liter, make 500 milliliters.  
  
Use aluminum foil instead of a lid for containers without a lid, such as a triangular flask.  
  
**About the culture medium**  
Medium for bacteria should be hard.  
Medium for plants should be soft.  
If you spill material, you can't put it back in the container, so be careful.  
  
When various people share a lab like bioclub, it's hard to know where everything is.  
  
**Recipe for the culture medium we will be making:**  
- 500ml purified water  
- 12g sucrose  
- 6g agar  
- 5 vitamins (grind and add)  
  
**About Autoclave**  
There's something called autoclave tape.  
Kick the bottom with your knee to see if there is water.  
  
This time 121 degrees for 15 minutes.  
Actually, it takes about an hour because there is time to raise or lower the temperature.  
  
When pressure reaches zero, you can open it.  
  
Spray the plastic container with ethanol before putting it in the clean bench, and put it in the clean bench two or three times.  
  
Explanation of Parafilm  

  
**19:35 -  Guest Lecture, YCAM Ito & Tsuda**
※18:00 - 19:00 Lecture: Biology Basics, Kasと19:00 - 20:00 Guest Lecture, BioMaterials, Margherita Soldatiは後日復習  
    
About YCAM Bioresearch Project  
  
Introduction to YCAM  
Bioresearch lab established in 2015  
  
Open yeast protocols [github](https://github.com/YCAMInterlab/OpenYeastProtocols)  
Important parts of the medium are materials other than agar  
Biological Experiments and the Kitchen Metaphor Again  
   
  
森のDNA図鑑  
[https://special.ycam.jp/dna-of-forests/#/](https://special.ycam.jp/dna-of-forests/#/)  
  
終わらない庭のアーカイブ  
[https://niwa.ycam.jp/](https://niwa.ycam.jp/)  
  
### note
"Meta" barcoding

DIY bio may be more about network (community) than building your own tools.  
  

**== End of Lecture ==**  
〜Culture medium preparation continued〜
Take the triangular flasks out of the autoclave and bring them directly to the clean bench.  
  
Turn on the fan of the clean bench.  
  
Open the petri dish in the bench and pour directly from the flask.  
  
Do not invert the lid at this time.  
It is better to hold the lid.  
  
When you fill it about halfway, it's OK.  
  
In ycam they autoclave the kettle  
  
Petri dishes should be placed in the bench and poured rather than held in the hand.  
  
Don't think about the thickness of the medium this time.  
  







**17:00 - 19:00 Group Session 1**  
@Mariko Sakuragi, @Yutaro KAWADA, @Juppo Yokokawa, @Yosuke Tsuchiya (17:30-), @Ai Hirose (19:00-)  
We split into two groups, and built a clean bench.  
Details are in the week3 summary.  
  

**19:00: Lecture - Hideo Iwasaki: Art & Biology**  
↓Exhibition of 切り絵 in Havana  
[https://hideo-iwasaki.com/metamorphorest-i-ii-2009-2010](https://hideo-iwasaki.com/metamorphorest-i-ii-2009-2010)  
He exhibited it at Linz after that.  

Natural scientific view of nature  
Objective  
Humanistic view of nature  
Subjective  
  
→They are not two separate conceptions, but intertwined.  

Cyanobacteria are ideal model organisms for studying the biological clock.  
Temporal circadian rhythm（概日リズム） and spatial colony pattern arrangement.  
  
Direction of Metaphorest  
Conversion of a laboratory into an atelier  
Community Biolabs  
Conversion of an atelier to a laboratory   
  
Circadian rhythm is a concept that would not exist without the metaphor of an artificial device: clock.  
He wanted to use STS to study how the device metaphor is used in biology, but he became a molecular biologist.    

Three important genes (proteins) are involved in circadian rhythms.  
  
“Then, cyanobacteria collected from my neighboring ponds were inoculated onto the cutout positions from which sentences with first person or subjective expressions had been excised. They gradually grow over paper-cutouts with slow motility, as if they (analyzed target in the research paper) were hacking the paper.”  
  
Identity and archival issues in bioart.  
  
comment by Masuda-san  
Isn't the right (権利) itself anthropocentric?
  
  
## ref  
[http://jscsr.org/](http://jscsr.org/)  
[https://hideo-iwasaki.com/culturing-papercut](https://hideo-iwasaki.com/culturing-papercut)  