---
layout: post
title: Extracting DNA from Salvia
---
  
- Use the Bento Lab and [this protocol](https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/dna-extraction-from-saliva/) to extract DNA from your salvia.
- Understand and simplify the protocol.
- Highlight and explain any terms/actions that are new to you.

Date of experiment: April 28, 2022  
  
ref:   
Bento: DNA Extraction from Salvia by Georg  
[https://trembl.notion.site/Bento-DNA-Extraction-from-Salvia-36710c3e07154990b0b274dc06acf469](https://trembl.notion.site/Bento-DNA-Extraction-from-Salvia-36710c3e07154990b0b274dc06acf469)  
  
DNA Extraction from Saliva - bentolab official  
[https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/dna-extraction-from-saliva/](https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/dna-extraction-from-saliva/)  
  
### Protocol Notes  
  
//First prepare paper cups for salt, water, saliva, and trash, respectively.    
1. Label 1.5m Eppendorf Tube with your name  
2. Prepare Saline (=Salt) solution  
Use ca. 5ml of water, mix with a pinch of salt  
// Just put about 5mm of water in the bottom of a paper cup and add a pinch of salt.  
    
3. Rinse your mouth
// Around 1 min.  
  
4. Transfer to 1.5ml Eppendorf Tube.  
If you use a Paper Cup, bend it and fill the tube  
// No need to use pipette    

5. Centrifuge at **4KG for 90sec**
// Note that bentolab's UI is tricky. To change the setting, you must hold down the button and turn it.  
  
6. Recover the Pellet by decanting the Supernatant  
The *Pellet* is the white concentration of cells on the bottom of the tube. The liquid above is the *Supernatant*  
7. Resuspend the Pellet  
Mix the Pellet with the remaining Supernatant by repeatedly flipping and tapping it.  
8. Transfer the sample to a 0.2ml PCR tube.   
You can use a 2-20 or 10-100 Pipette.  
9. Label the tube.  
// It is helpful to write your name on both the top of the lid and on the side of the tube.  
  
10. Heat the Sample at **99ºC for 10min**  
11. Mix the Sample by flipping and tapping  
12. Centrifuge at **8KG for 90sec**  
Use the Adapter Eppendorf tube to fit the PCR tubes in the Centrifuge  
**The DNA is now in the Supernatant, NOT in the Pellet**  
13. Transfer the Supernatant is a new PCR Tube  
Use a 20uL Pipette to transfer the Supernatant - and only the Supernatant - to a new PCR Tube  
14. Label and Freeze at -20ºC  
