---
layout: post
title: 2022/03/07 Mon
---

## note  
17:30- Homework Peer Review  

18:30-19:30 Lecture: Lab hardware Introduction Kas Houthuijs  
18:35- Explanation of Hardware  
・wetlab hardware  
・usables  
・wetlab biosafety design  
・DIY vs Industrial hardware  

・Goals
Particle separation  
Particle mixing  
Measureing  
  It is important to precise as much as possible (make everything as measurable as possible)  
Control environment   
→It's not that different from a kitchen.   
frige（冷蔵庫）, measuring cups(計測カップ), oven(オーブン), pressure cooker(圧力鍋)、slacentrifuge(ぶんぶんチョッパー) etc.  
  
Machine - Goal  
Incubator - Control env  
Centrifuge -  Particle sep  
Sterile Hood (clean bench | Fume hood) - Control env  
Autoclave - Control env  
Shakers and Stirrers - Particle mix  
Balance - Measuring  
Pipette - Measuring  
Microscope - Measuring  
Freezer - Control env  
Gel Electrophoresis machine - Particle sep  
Thermocycler (pcr) - Control env  
spectrophotometer - Measuring  
Bioreactor -  Control env  
sequencer - Measuring  
high-performance liquid chromatography(HPLC) - Measuring  
vortex - Particle mixing  
microscope - Measuring  
cf）nano drop  
  
・You have to be careful where you use MDF or acrylic for DIY lab equipment, considering ease of cleaning and such.  
・Sterile (無菌状態？) conditions can also be made using convection currents created by a burner.  
・Autoclave  
  Tools to kill living organisms at high temperatures and high pressure.  
  Alcohol, UV light, bleach (bleach) have the same function  
  After autoclaving, you can throw it away as normal.  Tools to kill living organisms at high temperatures due to high pressure  
  Alcohol, UV light, bleach (bleach) have the same function  
  After autoclaving, you can usually throw it away (this may not apply if the biosafety level is 2 or higher)  
・Microscopes don't play such an important role in the wet lab.  
  
20:00- つづき  
・Spectrophotometer  
  Determine the concentration of solute in solution  
・Bioreactor  
  bio fuel etc.  
  Like an aquarium with an incubator or something together.  
・sequencer  
  Measure the amount of charge in the AGCT.  
  Nanopore measures pH value.  
  
Usables  
Eppendolf tubes（エッペンチューブ）  
  The little ones are used for pcr, etc. Use gloves when handling DNA.  
Glass containers  
  cf) tissue culture flask  
Petri dish（シャーレ（German））  
Pipettes  
Ttips  
Inoculation loop（​​白金耳（Hakkinji））  
  
What's wet lab?  
“A wet lab, or experimental lab, is a type of laboratory where it is necessary to handle various types of chemicals and potential “wet” hazards, so the room has to be carefully designed, constructed, and controlled to avoid spillage and contamination”  
  
Biosafety Design  
Permanent structure (advised 掃除しやすいのが大事)  
All surfaces are easily cleanable and non absorbent  
Autoclave is necessary  
Possibly to disinfect hands  
Work clothing  
Doors and windows closed  
No other plants or animals  

DIY wet lab hardware can be dangerous or unusable depending on the item.  
Second hand is also an option.  
  
  
## ref  
[Open Source Licenses by Category](https://opensource.org/licenses/category)
