---
layout: post
title: week6 summary
---

# Assignments  
**Homework:**  
- Compare Waseda Lab and BioClub Lab. List at least 5 things that are similar or different. 
  
## Purpose and Users of the Lab    
The bioclub's lab is mainly used by non-scientists.  
The organisms treated in the labs and the experiments carried out are varied.  
In contrast, the IwasakiLab is mainly used by scientists (university researchers), the labs mainly deal with cyanobacteria and the experiments are mainly conducted with cyanobacteria.  
  
## Architecture  
With regard to the IwasakiLab, the building is designed for a lab.  
E.g. ceiling sockets, large sinks.  
  
## Protocols
Both labs share the same standard of biosafety level 1.  
They also share the use of equipment such as gloves when handling laboratory equipment and the use of clean benches and autoclaves to avoid contamination.  
  
## Variety of equipment  
The basic devices - centrifuges, PCRs, refrigerators, microscopes - are actually not much different, but the IwasakiLab had more options within each equipment, depending on the size and the subject of the experiment. For example, there was a refrigerator that could lower the temperature to minus 80 degrees Celsius, a centrifuge that could handle conical tubes and a microscope that could observe down to the cellular level.  
  
## Output   
At the IwasakiLab, the output of research is basically papers, conference presentations and university lectures, with the exception of the art practice at metaphorest.  
In the bioclub lab, on the other hand, the main outputs are more personal trial-and-error and citizen workshops.  