---
layout: post
title: PCR & Gelelectrophoresis
---
  
- Study and Documents the Bento [Biotech 101 Protoco](https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/).
- Especially: 4. Introduction to PCR  
- Choose a Primer, find out what the primer is doing  
- Document the Reagents used in the experiment  
- Carefully Document any changes (MasterMix?) that h  
- Did you document how to pour a gel? What devices did you use?  
- Did you run a gel? Document the steps.   
- Why did you need to add at a *ladder*. Describe what it does and how it is used.  
- How exactly is the DNA visualized in the gel?  
- Show pictures of a successful gel run.  

Bento Lab is an experimental device that can perform a series of operations (centrifugation, PCR, gel electrophoresis, and gel observation) in genetic experiments in a single unit and is easily portable.  
  
▼ Presentation by Philipp Boeing, developer of the Bento lab.  
[https://vimeo.com/369098071](https://vimeo.com/369098071)  
  

Date of experiment: July 12, 2022  
**I accidentally deleted the photos taken on this day, so the pictures on this page were provided by Shiho Hasegawa and Tou Takuzen.**  
  
Under Takuzen's supervision, we decided to examine [Lactose Intolerance](https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/lactose-intolerance/) and [Bitterness Tasting](https://bento.bio/protocol/biotechnology-101/bitter-taste/).   
  
First, we did DNA extraction.  
We followed the Bento Lab procedure, but in order to increase the concentration of DNA, after centrifugation at 8 kG 90 sec, 500 µl 70% ethanol was added, and centrifuged again at 8 kG 60 sec.  
遠心分離の画像
After centrifugation, the tubes were dried to remove water.  
チューブ乾かす画像
When thoroughly dry, we prepared PCR solution.
  
### Preparation of PCR solution
- Primer-Mix 1ml (1uM) 
    We used 2 primer-mix: Lactose Intolerance and Bitterness Tasting.
- taq 25ul
- dna 5ul
- primer mix 5ul
- te-buffer 15ul

*Put DNA Template → primer mix → te-buffer → taq in the PCR tube in this order.*  
*Taq polymerase thawed and put in at the last minute! Put it away in the freezer as soon as you use it!*  
*Always replace the micropipette tip every time when the tube already contains another reagent!*  
    
### PCR  
This time we used miniPCR.  

▼Cycle  
94℃/120s  
--  
Number of cycles → 35 times  
94℃/30s   
64℃/30s  
72℃/30s  
--  
72℃/120s  
  
### Gel making  
TBE(0.5x): 50ml  
Agar: 1g  

Heated in microwave for 80 seconds.  
*Do not close the lid of the container too tightly when heating.*  
  
Add Gelgreen 3ul.  
  
The solidified gel was placed in a Bluegel, poured with TBE, and electrophoresed.  